.TH RUN 1 "2026-02-26" "Mentat 0.1.0" "Mentat Manual"
.SH NAME
run \- start the Mentat development server or run the test suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./run.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B run.sh
is the primary entry point for local development of Mentat, an AI executive
coaching chatbot with a multi-agent LangGraph backend.
.PP
By default it validates the environment, starts a FastAPI/uvicorn development
server with hot-reload enabled, and opens the chat UI in the default browser.
.PP
Passing
.B \-\-all\-tests
skips the server entirely and runs the full pytest suite instead.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-all\-tests
Run the full pytest test suite instead of starting the server.
Unit, config, graph, and API tests are always executed.
Integration tests (which call the live OpenRouter API) are skipped
automatically unless
.B OPENROUTER_API_KEY
is present in the environment.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPENROUTER_API_KEY
Required to start the server and to run integration tests. Must be set in a
.I .env
file in the project root. Copy
.I .env.example
as a starting point.
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL
Controls logging verbosity. Accepted values:
.BR DEBUG ", " INFO ", " WARNING ", " ERROR .
Defaults to
.B DEBUG
(as set in
.IR .env.example ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .env
Local environment file. Must contain
.BR OPENROUTER_API_KEY .
Not committed to version control.
.TP
.I .env.example
Template for
.IR .env .
Committed to version control.
.TP
.I log/mentat.log
Runtime log file written by the server. Rotated automatically on each startup.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start the development server:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./run.sh
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run all tests:
.PP
.RS
.EX
./run.sh --all-tests
.EE
.RE
.PP
View this manual page without installing it:
.PP
.RS
.EX
man ./man/run.1
.EE
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
A required environment variable is missing, the
.I .env
file does not exist, or an unknown option was passed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uvicorn (1),
.BR pytest (1)
.PP
Project documentation:
.I docs/agent-design.md
and
.I docs/coaching-philosophy.md
.SH AUTHORS
Ben Dundee and Claude Sonnet 4.6.
